# Expenses - Travel auths

Claiming expenses is a process you can expect to go through on a semi-regular basis. The first step in this process is a Travel Authorization (often referred to as a TA).

## All expense claims are handled through [TechWorks](http://techworks.gatech.edu/).

## Submitting a Travel Authorization

1. Log into TechWorks.
2. From the dashboard, click the icon for `Travel & Expense Claims` on the right.
3. Click the link for `Create New Travel Auth`. 

### In the `Trip Details` tab

4. Fill in the first page. You will need to fill in the following fields:
- `Traveller ID` (use the search box by clicking the search icon). This will also fill in the `Empl Work Dept` field.
- `Departure Date` and `Return Date`
- `Business Purpose` (choose from the options in the drop down menu)
- `Origin city` and `Destination city` (this will calculate your per diem allowance)

### In the `Accounting Detail` tab

Here you have to enter the `Project number` so the money can be paid from the right budget. If you're unsure, ask your team lead. 

### In the `Estimated Expenses` tab

Fill in the expenses you anticipate. These might include:

- Flights
- Hotel
- Transportation (such as Lyft rides or train tickets)

#### A note about food

Per diem amounts are automatically generated by the travel authorization, based on where you're going and the number of days you will be there.

On trips funded by NSF grants you will be able to claim a per diem amount in your final expenses. For other grants, this becomes more complicated and sometimes we can't claim food at all. Ask your team lead if you're not sure.

### In the Summary/Submit tab

This shows you a summary. Check it over.

Click `Save` at the bottom to save it, and then `Submit for approval`. 

#### Make sure to print your barcode!

This is a PDF document that is proof of your submission. Click `Print travel auth`, which will generate a downloadable PDF for your records.
